for, you know, include your name and age and
something about what you do in this area. Well, I'm
D.L. Peters, Doug Peters, and I've lived right
around in, in four bars of here all my life. I'll be,
let's see, I was born in 98, I'll be 70, 77 this next
birthday. Won't I always? 77. And, uh, But I spent
10 years in the crime academy working for my
brother in the ranch over there. And we moved over
there in 33 and moved back here in 43 and built this
home here and got through it in 44 and been right
here ever since. And that's our old home place
right across the road there. And we moved down
there when I was seven years old. And I'll never
forget that. we moved up there one day and school
had started you know and and I never had been to
school and so when children them days all walked
you know to school and there's two families lived
on this way so when they came along when they told me
to send me out there to go to school with them when we
got on down the road down to Hunter when they they
older kids you know got to tell me about what all
they gonna do to me that day you know and they'll
been to school I turned around and That'd take me on
a scoot, but
like I told you a while ago, I didn't go long enough.
Who were the first people in your family to move to
this area? Where did they come from? Do you have any
idea? No, I just don't know much about my people
now. As far as, you know, I was born and raised, like
I said, right around here. Where did your dad come
from? He was staying away. He was here. I see. Now
you're involved in farming and some ranching too,
aren't you? No farming, just ranching. Have you
noticed a lot of changes in the ranching methods or
techniques since you moved here? Since you can
remember? Tell me something about how they've
changed. Well, way back on, you know, you didn't.
The only way you fed in the cattle most when I was a
kid was to cut moss trees for them. That's how we
feed them. Well, some people did feed cottonseed,
you know, just whole cottonseed to the milk cows,
something like that. But cattle on the range, the
only feed they ever got is when you cut out a moss
tree and they got the moss off of it. Of course, that
changed up a lot, just a whole lot. We started out
feeding cottonseed cake when we first started
feeding cattle. And we'd feed them about three
times a week and give them two or three pounds a
piece, you know. But now we feed the blocks and
mineral blocks, stuff like that, just put it out
once a week. It's a whole lot easier that way. I
guess just as good as the other two. Being involved
in ranching, do you remember any particularly bad
years for weather? You know, droughts, or floods,
or tornadoes, or things like that you can recall?
When were they? 1925 was one real bad drought. It
just sure was that bad. We've had about three of
them, but I can't remember what years there were
now. Can you tell me some more about the 1925 and
what you did and what really went on around here
during that? Of course, I was a young fellow then,
and we didn't have any of the water cleanouts. You
know, we didn't have any water. Of course, didn't
have any grass either much, but just, you got to
have water. You sure got to have that with Kevin.
And them days, it sounds funny to say that there's
some country down on this Minnesota River them
days that never had been fenced. It's just open
country. We took them cattle down there to the
river. Of course, there's water in the river down
there, but our place, Wixon Creek, goes through
here. And the water all dried up and we didn't have
any water. We got a man, a well man out there, my
daddy did, to drill a deep well, you know, and we was
gonna try to hook a gasoline pump onto it and water
them that way. And he came out there with a big
outfit and left it strapped in old water. And we
moved the cattle on down to the river then and just
run them outside and fed them a little cotton seed
cake and cut elm trees for them. They'd eat the
leaves off of the elm trees and fed them a little
cake. Of course, we had plenty of water down there.
The river was in the hole, but it hadn't dried
up. Of course, we used to run hogs outside, you
know. That's pretty good business for a while,
too. Well, let me change the subject just a little
bit. Do you remember any real famous people ever
coming to the Bryan College Station area?
Politicians or ministers or whatever that were
really well-known nationally that you can
remember coming here? Well, I don't, Judge
Barron, I was telling you about just a while ago, I
feel like he's done as much for this county as any
man I can think of. Tell me something about what you
mean. Well, he's a Christian man, and he stands for
the principles, you know, the right thing. And
he's had a big influence in that way. I'm not
familiar with the man. Just tell me something
about him. I don't know anything about him. Well,
he's a lawyer, and he was judge of this county for
several years. When did he start being judge? Oh, I
can't remember. Way back in the day. Way back in the
day. But he's meant a lot to this county. He sure
has, I think. We're looking at that picture up
there on the wall that you showed me from 1910,
downtown Bryan. Tell me something about the
people in 1910 in Bryan. What did most of them do?
What kept them around here? Was College Station
here then? Oh yeah, College Station. Boy, I can
remember. When was college... When was it
organized and started over there? The
university? It was in the 1860s? With the Hatch
Act? I think that's right. It's been there ever
since I was I don't remember, I know. Well, back
them days, you know, you went everywhere
horseback or in a buglet or wagon or something like
that. You didn't, wasn't in an automobile. And on
that, in that picture up there, there's one old car
sitting there. Do you notice that? Yeah, I see it. I
sure do. That's the only cars in the county, I
reckon, in 1910. And I remember when they had a
trolley car They used to run from Bryan to College
and out there, what we call Midway now, you know
where that is? Uh-huh, sure do. Martin's
Barbecue's in Long Lake, that's Midway. And they
had a big, built a big tank out there at Lake and made
a swimming place, you know, where you'd go out
there and go swimming and then they had rods of
different kinds out there, kind of like a on the
order of a carnival or something like that, you
know, a pleasure deal. So that was a big deal. Them
days, of course, the boys would come into the Brine
to the picture show, the A&M boys, and they used to
turn the Allen Academy boys and the A&M boys all
loose on Saturday evenings, you know, and they
could come in there, but they quit doing that. I
heard that there's too many boys out there at one
time, so Allen then went to turn it out on Monday. On
Mondays, having a Monday holiday and a Saturday.
But you did that for a good while.
Tell me something about, remember the
Depression? Oh, you bet. You were here then. Tell
me what conditions were like during that time
around here. That's my daughter up there, Miss
Bell. What did you say his name was? Barfield, Carl
Barfield. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you too.
tell you what now. Tell me something about the
Depression. What went on around there? What did
people do? How were people thinking about it
during that time? Well, it is tough.
But, of course, country people, you know, we,
cattle got out to nothing. You couldn't get
nothing for them. Farm products, you couldn't get
nothing for that. But I guess in a way the country
people fared better than the city people because
we had gardens and had plenty of meat to eat you know
and as far as uh we didn't have any money but we did
have plenty to eat. But it wasn't a way for us to get
over the money them did. What did most people
around here do at that time during the depression?
They farmed and ranched. When I was a kid this whole
community was in farming. What kind of crops?
Cotton and corn. That was the main crop. Cotton was
the money crop. Of course, the corn, they had to
have that to feed the stock on, you know. You know, I
work with insects. It's my profession. I'd be
interested in knowing if you remember the first
boll weevil that was reported in this area. No, I
can't remember that. Do you remember any
particularly bad years for insects? You finally
caught it, didn't you? No, I don't remember what
particular year it was, but I do remember when I was
just a kid, I didn't hear anything about it, but I
don't remember when it started. They were mostly
down in the Brazilians. Yeah, it started more so
down in there, because that was a cotton country
more than so it is. And the Depression, didn't we
live over in Barnes County then? Oh, we live down
here. Well, here's two pictures up here. I don't
guess they do you any good.
Do you remember any particularly big events, like
political meetings or community picnics or
anything of that sort that took place around here
that really attracted a lot of people and were
really big things? The Hoods Brigade. We had Hoods
Brigade. All the men and boys had to let their
Beards grow out and all, and the women wore
colonial dresses, and bonnets, you know. That was
the hoods we gave. Yeah, but I can't remember much
about it. Things way back yonder, I can remember a
lot cleaner than I can, but just a lot of things that
happen now, I can't remember nothing about it in a
year or two. Well, how far back there are you
talking about remembering? Well, like that 1910
now. What do you remember? When you see that
picture, what do you think of? I just think of one
thing that I used to really enjoy. Those bottom
farmers was all down in the brown part of them, you
know, down Jones Bridge Road and all that part of
the country. They brought all their cotton and
everything to Brown. Of course, they had gin down
there, but then they'd haul it. Brown had it
compressed, you know, and stored here. And they
hauled all their groceries, all their supplies
from here back down there. And big farmers had
commissaries.
But the thing I can tell you is that those teams,
they were big bottom farmers that had six and maybe
some of them, a few of them, eight mules to one
wagon. And they colored people in. They could
really handle them mules. You know how wide Street
Brown is. They'd put one line on that mule and
they'd be riding one to the wheel wagging you. And
they'd put one line on the lead mule and they could
just swing that wagon around there and back it up to
the porch there and load it. And I got a lot of kick
out of it. I'm just watching them. That's one of the
One thing that I can remember more so than nearly
anything, and I've seen steers on the street.
There's an old boy up north of Brown. He used to
drive steers a lot. I've seen him a lot of times. I
just enjoyed them. And they'd have little bells on
the mules, on the lead mule. Yeah. And a torso, red
torso. It looked good to me. I got a lot of kick out of
just watching that. Do you remember anything,
anyone ever telling you about slavery in this
area, about owning slaves or anything of that
nature in the Bryan College Station area? No, I
don't believe I can. This piece of land that you
live on right here, who lived here before you did?
Do you know anything about these people? Well,
this particular spot, I don't believe anybody
ever lived right on it, but we got some men right out
there that were colored from it. But there's a,
there's a white fellow that owned the head of him,
but I can't, he was a doctor. I mean, doctor, but he,
you know, he's, well, I, I think he'd served the
term in the pen. And he got out in the wheelchair. He
had a son, and he and his wife and son, but he never
did practice medicine here. But he lived right out
there. But after that, though, after he didn't
stay there, Seemed like a year or two, I can't
remember. But there's an old colored fella bought
it. He and his wife lived there, didn't have any
children. And that's all. But now this, there was a
house right down yonder where that one was then,
and this land, this old colored fella had three
acres out there. And the 17 acres belonged to a man
by the name of Freeman that lived down there then,
and that's as far back as I can remember. anybody.
He's living there as far as I can remember. But. You
know my grandfather used to tell me of back in the
late 1890s early 1900s of actually seeing some of
the old west saloon the saloons and the the
gunfights actually. He saw one or two of those he
would relate. Did you ever witness anything like
this? No of course I had saloons then they don't
ever They were cornered, Brian, in 1910. Tell me,
you remember anything about them? I mean, at all?
No, I don't. I never did. There's a fellow who run a
hamburger joint in one of them, and he stood right
in it. I mean, he had to stand right in the front
door. And kids, they wasn't allowed to go in the
flume, but we could go up to that front door and get
hamburgers and things like that. But I can't never
remember maybe but once or twice ever going in a
saloon back in them days. Of course, now when you go
to eat, you go in a beer jar. You know, they usually
had a beer or something like that. But I've never
seen any fights like that or any trouble like that.
If you had to pick out one or two things at their
events or whatever that have happened in this
area, in your lifetime that really stand out or
that have impressed you, what would you talk
about? I can't even remember. Just take a second
and think about something. I'm sure you must have
experienced a tremendous amount since you've
been here. Well,
there's one thing that just comes to my mind, I
don't know whether, but anyhow, Well, back yonder
we used to drive cattle from, buy cattle over
yonder at Riverside, the other side of
Huntsville, you know where that is? And we'd drive
them, drive them there over here. And then from
here over to Caldwell, we, that's when I was a young
fella, and we bought cattle over there, and we'd
bought and sell and sold. And we'd go over there and
buy a bunch of cattle and drive them here, or to
Welborn over here, and my friend and I, we was in
together. And I never will forget one time we
brought a bunch of cattle from over there and we
came through Pinewood from the other side of,
going to Huntsville over there. What's the name of
that place this side of Huntsville? Shire Oak, and
then they, well, we came through Pinewood there,
just open country, you know, Pinewood, They had a
railroad them days going through Carlisle. You
know where Carlisle is? No, I don't. It's the old
Carlisle Drive County on 30 going to Boyd's
Huntsman. And one time we had a bunch of cattle. We
were just about to the railroad track, and a train
was coming. And an engineer, I reckon, thought
he'd give us a little scare. And he went to blowing
the whistle, and them cattle just, man, they broke
out. And there's a home that's built like this is a
fence going down the railroad right-of-way. The
right-of-way was here. Well, there's a home right
against this fence with a porch sticking out over
in there right-of-way like. You know, like this is
a house with a porch that stands out here. And
there's two children swinging out on the porch in
one of these swings that swing up from the ceiling
down. And a cow run across that porch and slipped
and knocked them two kids out of that swing, and
they went crawling in the house. But I think about
that every once in a while, about how dangerous it
was. But we finally got them all together. But
that's about it. Just thinking back to it. You
mentioned the railroad. What do you remember
about the railroad in relationship to Bryan
College Station? But of course the railroad's
been here ever since I can remember. There used to
be a, of course we, you know in them days you didn't,
my grandfather lived in Bryan, and I'd get to go out
there and spend the night with him once in a while,
and the first picture show I ever saw, Was that
right across from the old Dixie Theater, what do
you call that? You remember when that was? No, no,
it must have been... I'm 77 years old, must have
been... I imagine I was maybe 12, 14 years old,
something like that. You were born in 1898? Yeah,
yeah. I imagine I do not know. Tell me something
about the women of these times when you were
growing up. Perhaps your mother or what did they
do? Were they just mostly around the house or what
was really their role? Well, yeah, most of the
women that I was associated with, their role was
just housekeeping and kind of looking after the
family, you know. That's most of it. Well, can you
tell me something about your immediate family, or
how many brothers and sisters, and what they all
did, or what? Well, I had got two brothers and a
sister living there, and one brother died when he
was around 21 years old. But we was all raised right
here, every one of them. Well done. And two
brothers lived, one brother lived right over
here. in this big house, and the other one lived in
Brown. Sister lived in Austin, and that's as far as
we ever got away from here to live. You know, your
wife, or you mentioned earlier that you go to
church quite often. Apparently you're a
religious man. Can you tell me something about the
churches in this area and how they got started, or
what the story was with what kind of religions, or
where are you, and how long have you been, and that
sort of thing? Well, the church is, our church is
right up here on this 30, you know where you turn?
Well, that's our church, and it was moved from
down, it's Bethel Church now, but it's moving down
the road there, it's off of the road, the highway,
and we live back down towards,
we went to Steve Haller Church until then. I was
seven years old and then, as I told you a while ago,
we moved up here. And they had a vote going, you
know, they're trying to move the church up where it
is now, and some of them was in favor of it and some of
them were not. And so my dad and mother never did
take part until after they got it settled, when
they voted to move it up here. Well, they joined
this church up here after they got that settled.
and so it's that's i remember when they built it up
here but the old church i remember it too down there
but i i remember going there some but that's about i
don't know when it was built the old one i believe i
believe i was just a hundred and that seemed like
they said about 107 years old that's what i heard
because we didn't have a anniversary on the 100th,
and the preacher said something about, well, we
could have a, have it, you know, for 107 years. I
believe that's about what it's been like. Not, not
in this place, but I mean, since it's organized. Do
you remember anything about church when you were
young, and the difference in, in the type services
now and then? Well, uh,
church, when I was young, uh, I know young people
didn't have anything to say in the church in them
days. And the ladies didn't need us for that
matter. It was run by the men way back then. And I
remember they had what they called in them days,
Amen Corners. A bunch of men, you know, maybe
deacons and men that was active in the church maybe
four or five benches in the corner over here, and
people called that Amen Corners. When preachers
got preaching pretty hard, preaching the truth,
well, they'd amen him, you know. You don't hear
much of that no more. You ever sit in an Amen corner?
No. No, I don't. That is kind of, when I got up, kind
of out of date, like.
You know, a big part of any community are the the
people that are in the politics of the community,
the mayors, the judges, you've already mentioned
one, the city councils, councilmen, that sort of
thing. Do you remember any particularly
important people having held positions in Bryan
College Station outside this judge you mentioned
a moment ago? If so, tell me something about them
that you remember. I'm sure there's been a lot of
them, but I, you know, we lived out here and we
didn't, we don't even get to vote on that city
officers out there and things like that. I don't
know. I just never did get interested. Like I said,
we just didn't have any say coming out there about
the mayor and things like that. Do you remember any
scandals, any crimes that were found out? There's
Watergate on the national scale. Did Bryan
College Station ever have anything that way that
you can remember? No, I can't remember. I just
don't remember any crimes.
What
kind of games did you play when you were a kid? I'm
sure they must differ from the games kids play
today. Well, when we were youngsters, they had
play parties. When school was out for the holidays
during Christmas, Every night, you know, they'd
usually wait until it turned out, oh, you'd have a
week or ten days, holidays, Christmas. But every,
uh, for every night during that time, except
Sunday night, they'd have a, have a party.
Different people, you know, they'd like to have a
party here tonight and down yard tomorrow night
and somewhere else. But they'd have one sort of
lined out for every night. And, uh, The game they
played them, it sure would look silly. Tell me
about it. Tell me about it, really. You'd take an
old boy and they'd play what you call a snap. You
know, a boy and girl would hold hands and say a girl
would snap somebody. Well, you'd run around and
around that couple that's holding hands until you
could tag him. And then he'd hold up with her. And
then they'd... tag, I mean, ask somebody to come
catch them. Now that don't make sense, but we've
done that a million times. And they had the,
we had one game that they pulled, I don't think I've
ever seen them pull that but once. But they have two
chairs like sitting together right here, three
chairs. and they'd put a quilt over all three of
them. Not that they had two chairs, but it'd be
fixed like there's three and the middle would be
vacant. And there'd be two girls maybe sitting
here and this one and that one over there and they'd
bring an old boy in, have him blindfolded, you
know, call him in and lead him up there and take the
blindfold. Well, no, they didn't have him
blindfolded. They'd just bring him in there and
they'd tell him, Sit down there between them two
girls and have a tub of water under there. When he'd
sit down, when the girls start to sit down, the
girls jump up. Put right down the tub of water, he'd
go. The continuation of this tape is on the flip
side.